in the original pokémon red and blue
when you encounter your rival in
lavender town he asks whether or not you
know what it's like to have one of your
pokemon die at this point in the game he
no longer has his Raticate that he used
in previous battles your rival battle
before this took place above the SS are
your rivals Raticate sustained serious
injuries from the battle but because of
crowding and confusion in the luxury
liner he was unable to make it to a
Pokemon Center in time and the Raticate
passed away the real reason why your
rival is in lavender town to begin with
is delay his deceased friend to rest
despite all of this your rival never
outwardly tells you that you're
responsible for the death of his Pokemon
he hides his grief and instead channels
our energy into the motivation he needed
to continue his quest to become the
indigo League champion the death of his
Raticate effectively destroys your
rivals impish childhood innocence
although he tells himself that he
doesn't hold you responsible he
subconsciously holds a great deal of
resentment towards you which further
fuels his ambition tearfully swearing
upon his eradicates grave to not fail in
what he set out to do he trains hard in
hopes of becoming better than you
defeating you and to eventually make it
to the Pokemon League mere moments after
he became the indigo league champion he
was defeated
by you although he fulfilled his promise
to his fall in Pokemon it was only for a
painfully brief instance in the end your
rival is scolded by his grandfather
while you receive the professor's praise
during the course of the game you steal
your rivals innocence crush his dreams
and ultimately snatch away the love of
his own grandfather